---
layout: post
title:  "SBCC CS Sweeps Programming Competition"
date:   2010-11-20 09:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
active: news
---

There is also a [Noozhawk article](http://www.noozhawk.com/article/112110_sbcc_computer_team_sweeps_programming_competition) available.

Santa Barbara City College’s two programming teams, SBCC++ and SBCC–, took top honors for two-year schools at the 2010 Southern California Regionals for the International Collegiate Programming Competition (ICPC) Saturday November 13 held at Riverside Community College. Additionally, SBCC placed 15th (SBCC++) and 37th (SBCC–) overall which place SBCC’s teams over teams from many four year institutions including UCLA, UNLV, CSUCI, UCR, UCI, CSULA, and UCSB. <!--more-->The overall winner, Harvey Mudd College, will compete in the ICPC World Finals to be held in Egypt. This year marked the return of SBCC to the ICPC since the 1996-1997 school year when SBCC hosted the competition. The team SBCC++, consisting of Keith Avery, Roxanne Brittain and Allison Van Pelt, shattered the previous record for the most number of problems solved by a two-year school by solving four problems. This was double the previous record of two. SBCC++ also had the highest placement (top 21%) of any two-year institution since records started being kept over 20 years ago. The team SBCC–, consisting of Kevin Daniels, Dan Malear, and William Moor, also performed at a record breaking pace by solving three problems. The ICPC gives the three-person student teams a set of eight programming problems that must be completed within five hours. This year saw 72 teams from 26 schools competing from throughout the Southern California area including: Cal Tech, Harvey Mudd College, UCSD, UCLA, USC, Cal Poly SLO, CSULA, UCR, UCI, CSUCI, UNLV, Mt. San Antonio College, Riverside CC, CSUF, CSUDH, Moorpark College, and others. The problem set this year saw all of the problems completed, but none of the problems were completed by any one school. The official results can be found on the ICPC web site.

Both SBCC teams were coached by Dr. Dean Nevins, chair and professor of computer science at SBCC. Dr. Nevins said, “The competition provided a tremendous opportunity for SBCC students to mix it up with the best programmers out there. The preparation and dedication needed to participate in the contest was considerable.” He added, “The best part was that all the students had a great time and got a lot out of the experience.”

